Accessibility design doc (#195)
servo/book: src/design-documentation/accessibility/background.md

> # Accessibility Background

Author: background.md done 8 july

The [basic design of AccessKit](https://accesskit.dev/how-it-works/) is based on Chromium's original multi-process accessibility architecture, which also influenced Firefox's "Cache the World" design.
It provides a platform-independent, serializable schema centered on the concept of tree updates, as well as an API to allow consuming those updates to create an in-memory tree which can be mapped to platform APIs.
Typically, application developers only need to be concerned with producing the tree updates; AccessKit provides "adapters" which consume the updates, retain the cached full tree, and communicate with platform APIs.

### AccessKit data types

#### `Node`

AccessKit provides a [`Node`](https://docs.rs/accesskit/0.24.0/accesskit/struct.Node.html) type to represent a node in the accessibility tree.
A `Node` _must_ have a [`Role`](https://docs.rs/accesskit/0.24.0/accesskit/enum.Role.html) value, and may have many other properties, including [`children`](https://docs.rs/accesskit/0.24.0/accesskit/struct.Node.html#method.children).

`Node` is designed to be serializable, so it can be easily passed between processes.

#### `NodeId`

> Each `Node` is associated with a [`NodeId`](https://docs.rs/accesskit/0.24.0/accesskit/struct.NodeId.html), which must be unique within the node's tree.

Author: linkify “tree” to § Subtrees?

Reviewer: Done.

Each `TreeUpdate` can only have one `TreeId`; this determines the ID space for the `NodeId`s in the update.

### Subtrees

AccessKit allows applications to nest separate trees to avoid needing to maintain global uniqueness of NodeIds.

Nesting a tree as a subtree of another tree is a two-step process, where the order is critical:

1. Send a `TreeUpdate` for the _parent_ tree which includes a [`Node`](https://docs.rs/accesskit/0.24.0/accesskit/struct.Node.html) with a [`tree_id`](https://docs.rs/accesskit/0.24.0/accesskit/struct.Node.html#method.tree_id) value equal to the `TreeId` of the _child_ tree. This `Node` becomes a _graft node_ for the subtree.
2. Send a `TreeUpdate` for the _child_ tree with the matching [`tree_id`](https://docs.rs/accesskit/0.24.0/accesskit/struct.TreeUpdate.html#structfield.tree_id) value.

Any `TreeUpdate` with a `tree_id` value other than [`TreeId::ROOT`](https://docs.rs/accesskit/0.24.0/accesskit/struct.TreeId.html#associatedconstant.ROOT) MUST be preceded by a `TreeUpdate` containing a `Node` with the same `tree_id` value; otherwise, the AccessKit adapter consuming the `TreeUpdate` will panic.

> <img alt="Diagram of subtree grafting: Tree 1 includes a node with tree_id: 2, which is labelled as 'graft node' and has a dotted line pointing to the root node of Tree 2." src="../images/accesskit-graft-node.svg">

Author: broken src?

Reviewer: Fixed.

### Adapters

`Node`s and `TreeUpdate`s allow an application to describe a platform-independent accessibility tree.
Adapters map between this platform-independent representation and the various platform-specific accessibility APIs.

> Typically, an adapter will provide a method which takes a `TreeUpdate`, and uses the [`accesskit_consumer` API](https://docs.rs/accesskit_consumer/latest/accesskit_consumer/index.html) to update an in-memory tree which can be queried via platform APIs, triggering the appropriate notifications to the API in the process.

Author: consider?

```suggestion
Typically, an adapter will provide a method which takes a `TreeUpdate`, and uses the [`accesskit_consumer` API](https://docs.rs/accesskit_consumer/latest/accesskit_consumer/index.html) to update an in-memory tree which can be queried via platform APIs, triggering the appropriate notifications to the API as it does so.
```

Reviewer: Done.

AccessKit provides platform-specific adapters for Linux, macOS and Windows, as well as a cross-platform [`accesskit_winit`](https://crates.io/crates/accesskit_winit) adapter which can be used by projects using the `winit` cross-platform windowing library.
`accesskit_winit` pulls in the respective platform-specific adapters under the hood.

### Actions

Finally, AccessKit provides an [`ActionRequest`](https://docs.rs/accesskit/0.24.0/accesskit/struct.ActionRequest.html) type for relaying user actions from assistive technology back to the application in a platform-independent way.

> Adapters provide hooks for the application to be notified of action requests to be able to handle user actions.

Author: consider?

```suggestion
Adapters provide hooks for the application to be notified of action requests, so that they can handle user actions.
```

Reviewer: Done.
